gcc编译器的文件命名规范可以使用man gcc查看到，以下是从中截取的一段  

       For any given input file, the file name suffix determines what kind of compilation is done:

       file.c
           C source code that must be preprocessed.

       file.i
           C source code that should not be preprocessed.

       file.ii
           C++ source code that should not be preprocessed.

       file.m
           Objective-C source code.  Note that you must link with the libobjc library to make an
           Objective-C program work.

       file.mi
           Objective-C source code that should not be preprocessed.

       file.mm
       file.M
           Objective-C++ source code.  Note that you must link with the libobjc library to make an
           Objective-C++ program work.  Note that .M refers to a literal capital M.

       file.mii
           Objective-C++ source code that should not be preprocessed.

       file.h
           C, C++, Objective-C or Objective-C++ header file to be turned into a precompiled header
           (default), or C, C++ header file to be turned into an Ada spec (via the -fdump-ada-spec
           switch).

       file.cc
       file.cp
       file.cxx
       file.cpp
       file.CPP
       file.c++
       file.C
           C++ source code that must be preprocessed.  Note that in .cxx, the last two letters must
           both be literally x.  Likewise, .C refers to a literal capital C.

       file.mm
       file.M
           Objective-C++ source code that must be preprocessed.

       file.mii
           Objective-C++ source code that should not be preprocessed.

       file.hh
       file.H
       file.hp
       file.hxx
       file.hpp
       file.HPP
       file.h++
       file.tcc
           C++ header file to be turned into a precompiled header or Ada spec.

       file.f
       file.for
       file.ftn
           Fixed form Fortran source code that should not be preprocessed.

       file.F
       file.FOR
       file.fpp
       file.FPP
       file.FTN
           Fixed form Fortran source code that must be preprocessed (with the traditional
           preprocessor).

       file.f90
       file.f95
       file.f03
       file.f08
           Free form Fortran source code that should not be preprocessed.

       file.F90
       file.F95
       file.F03
       file.F08
           Free form Fortran source code that must be preprocessed (with the traditional
           preprocessor).

       file.go
           Go source code.

       file.ads
           Ada source code file that contains a library unit declaration (a declaration of a
           package, subprogram, or generic, or a generic instantiation), or a library unit renaming
           declaration (a package, generic, or subprogram renaming declaration).  Such files are
           also called specs.

       file.adb
           Ada source code file containing a library unit body (a subprogram or package body).
           Such files are also called bodies.

       file.s
           Assembler code.

       file.S
       file.sx
           Assembler code that must be preprocessed.

       other
           An object file to be fed straight into linking.  Any file name with no recognized suffix
           is treated this way.

	   